Lecture-79: Redux and React

After the lesson we have some notion as what Redux is and why you might want to use it? The question now is how you actually use it. Well, this is the part where it is going to get confusing

for a little while. I always try and manage going into something new by coding as well as talking about some base level concepts, but in this case we are going to go back to the kind of pep

talk we mentioned in the last video bacause in my experience the worst thing you can do with Redux is just start coding, there are a lot of moving pieces and so I just want to talk through

kind of our journey, I do not want to unnecessarily slow us down but this is in my opinion is try and set expectations as we start tackling the Redux monster. I have on the screen an image 

from bennadel.com, he is a blogger and a JavaScript Cold Fusion guy, but this came out about Angular-1 and I remember first time seeing it, that it is exactly how it feels where you have an 

x-axis of time and an y-axis of feelings and you have a slow steady curve going up where you learn a little bit and say that this is really neat and then you work on it a little bit more

and you fall back and think this is so lame and then again you learn a little bit more and then you have the great pop-up of Oh! This is pretty sweet and then you have another downfall 

where you realize that things are so much difficult than they need to be, this is so stupid, then you again have that pop up, then drop down and again have that pop up, then drop down and 

eventually you get to the point where you say that this is the most awesome framework ever. 


This is pretty common for most frameworks I would say as you get better at them provided that they are quality frameworks, you will have a sentiment like this. 


Unfortunately, I never found the Redux chart to look quite like this, we draw the pretty much the same chart, then I will give you an y-axis of feelings because that will be what the y-axis

represents and I am going to draw the x-axis through the middle and the x-axis will be Time. 

In my experience the way it tends to go is like this where you start off you learn a little bit and you say, "Wow! Its kind of cool", you have a little pop-up and then you realize how I 

actually do this? And then it goes all the way down where you get really fraustrated and you get really confused, and you absolutely cannot use it and you get to the point where you are 

thinking this is so dumb why would anyone use this, it is so confusing and the pay off is so minimal. It would be better to manage component state and pass it around than doing this. 


Well, here what we are going for, we are going for that point where you break through and keep going up in the graph and then you realize this is awesome. 


This point is not going to come fast, you are not going to have lot of those little wins along the way like from the Angular chart and what you are used to because it is kind of all at a 

once type thing. 


The question we are looking to answer here is the how? How do we do Redux? It needs to be done in the right way in order to manage the entire application state. That is why it is going to

feel confusing. It is just going to, unless you have a lot of experince with functional programming, it is going to feel contrived and you are going to feel like that there are too many 

moving parts. 


This is exactly how I felt when I first learned Redux. I started by thinking Wow!! I see some advantages here and then I wanted to abandone it as an illustration as how my process was like

and how it is going to be very easy to feel this way is that I felt like I was learning how to juggle but I was not really learning how to juggle, it is just an illustration but I wanted 

to go and take juggling lessons. I do not know how to juggle and this is very fun. I get to the first lesson, I do not know how to juggle and the teacher gives me 9 balls to start with.

He does not give them to me, he throws them to me and just expects me to catch them and start throwing them in the air, and I want to tell him that I can't even juggle three balls why are

you giving me 9 balls? 


That is what Redux felt like. It felt like that all of a sudden, you are asking me to start with this crazy 9 balls juggle, and I cannot do that. Well, as time passes and you hit that point

where you figure out how to juggle with 9 balls and then you will realize that this is very easy. 


No one is ever going to ask you to get better to the point where you can juggle knives or juggle flaming toches or stand on an Elephant's back on one foot while people shoot bean bags at

you, and you juggle knives, or chainsaws or whatever. It never gets more complicated than the very beginning. 


So, you just need to get to tha point where you understand all of the moving pieces as why are they the way they are and then you will redo the same thing over and over and over and over. 

cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/redux/4.0.1/redux.js

This is the link of the source-code for Redux JS, if we copy it and paste it on VS-Code, we see that it is 685 lines. But if we remove all the extra lines and all the comments, then we get

250-300 lines in total. So, it is not a big chunk of JavaScript, it is actually quite small. It is just going to be a matter of getting those pieces down. 


We will cover these pieces in two stages here. The rest of this lesson we are going to talk about how Redux works with React. 


So, Redux being this thing that we know is good but we do not really know how it works but how it interacts with React, so that you have a sense as how the puzzle pieces work. 

In the next lesson we are going to talk more specificly about how Redux itself works. So, this is sort of a macrocasm followed by a microcasm and then we will actually start to code it out.


In any React-Redux app we have couple of distinced pieces, we have the Redux piece and then we have the React piece.


						Redux 						React


Redux has no idea that React exists, it is not going to and it does not need to know, meanwhile React has no idea that Redux exists, in the same way it does not need to know and we are 

going to keep them completely separate. 


Redux is not meant to work exclusively with React, we can use Redux with Vue or Angular, we can also use it without an UI framework, just use the JavaScript to yourself if you need to. 

React also does not need Redux, we have not been using it all along so these two things are totally distinced from each other. 


So, you need to keep in mind that some of the things that we talk about with Redux are specific to Redux. 

The things those goes under Redux:

1. Actions

2. Action Creators

3. Reducers

4. Dispatcher

5. Store

All of these things have nothing to do with React and React will not know that any of these exist. Whereas, React has its own things. Things that goes under React:

1. State

2. Component

React has its own State, it has its own components, all of the things that make up React, Redux does not know about any of them and that is fine and we are going to keep it that way. 

In order to get React communicate with Redux we are going to have something in the middle called "React-Redux". 


React-Redux is another framework module that we are going to install. This is because React and Redux are two different libraries those are not made to work with each other, we can go 

through the extra length to make them work with each other but the developers' community has already done that, and React will talk to Ract-Redux, and React-Redux will be in the middle 

taking care of all of the business of communicating React with Redux. 


The React-Redux framework will also have its own built-in components. 


The things that React-Redux will have: 

1. Provider

2. connect()


We will look into these so please be patient. The point is there are things in our application those are going to be totally Redux specific. These are concepts that can be applied anywhere.

There are naturally the React stuff that we have been using all along, we are not going to change any of that because React will not have any idea that any of these are going on. Then there

are going to be parts those are specific to React-Redux that we would not use if we had taken Redux somewhere else but are very necessary in order to get React and Redux to talk to each 

other. 


So, we have got the Store under Redux, and we are going to refer to it as an object. We can put as much in there or as little in there, remember as in the last lesson, the Store is going to

be the place where any component can go to and then the component can update the Store and get stuff from the Store. It is a little bit more complicated than that but it is going to be the 

gist.


We have our React App and our React App has all been pretty much the same, since we started using create-react-app, we have the index.js at the top, and then we have the app.js and then it 

funnels down to whatever the component structure looks like. 


Our goal is to make any of the components, under the App component, talk to the Store. 


Whatever the component it happens to be, and the way we are going to do that as React and Redux do not know anything about each other, so the Provider (React-Redux) component is going to 

know about the Store, and we are going to take the Provider component and we are going to cover the entire React application, which means we are going to render the Provider component 

inside of the index.js file. 


Index.js is going to have the Provider component inside of it, and the App component is going to have the Router component. So, we are going to have both things. In that way any component

inside of React needs to access something from the Store, then that component is already inside of the Provider component being under the App component, and using the connect() function, 

the Provider component (React-Redux) will be able to connect to the Store (Redux). 


The connect() function which is part of React-Redux will be inside of a React component that needs to know about Redux and because that component is already inside of the Provider, it will 

be able to connect to the Store. 


As we practically do it, it will get more and more clear. The main point of this lesson is that React and Redux are not connected in any way by default. 


Redux has its own moving parts, React has its own moving parts and React-Redux will get them to work together, because we want our components in React to be able to go to the Store and grab

the State or update the State from anywhere in the application in seamless and trouble-free way as possible, that is why this whole architecture exists. 


We are going to use the Provider component and the connect() function inorder to communicate between React and Redux. We will not have enough involvement in that process but this is how at 

the high-level we are going to get them to work. 


In the next lesson we are going to breakdown how Redux is going to work because that is going to be a fairly substantial part of any Redux application, is the Redux specific part and then 

we will tie it altogether. 

